Slay the Spire-Inspired Morrowin Fan Game Project
I'm developing a card game based in the setting of TES III: Morrowind with game mechanics inspired by Slay the Spire. The player starts as a new recruit of either the Fighters Guild, the Thieves Guild, or the Mages Guild (this determines the player's class and starting deck). Through a series of encounter-filled quests, the player acquires new cards and gains experience, becoming stronger. When defeated, the player receives a reward that will benefit future runs.

Genre: roguelike singleplayer deckbuilding card game

This is a personal project and not currently intended for release or publication.

Key Features:
Turn-based combat
Interacting status effects that decay over time
Everything is cards (no other items)
Dual stamina and magicka resource system
Cards and card effects inspired by Morrowind game mechanics (in addition to others)

Working Title: JOURNEYS IN THE LAND OF ASH ("Land of Ash")

Game Mechanics Plan:

Cards
Card types
  Weapon: Costs stamina. Deals physical damage and can have other effects if enchanted.
  Armor: Costs stamina. Grants defense status and can have other effects if enchanted.
  Skill: Costs stamina. Can have a variety of effects, but not dealing physical damage or granting defense status.
  Spell: Costs magicka. Can have a wide variety of effects.
  Item: Costs nothing to play. Can have a wide variety of effects. Typically either very weak or powerful but extremely rare.
  Consumables: Costs nothing to play. Can have a wide variety of effects. Consists of potions and scrolls. When played, the card is "consumed" (like "exhausted" cards in Slay the Spire)

Weapons
Style (Long Blade, Blunt Weapon, Short Blade, Marksman Weapon, Staff, Natural Weapon)
  Fighter: can use long blade, blunt weapon
  Thief: can use short blade, marksman weapon
  Mage: can use staff
  Only enemies can use natural weapons
Substyle (non-mechanical, card design only)
  Long Blades
    Broadsword - Weakest and heaviest (iron, imperial, ebony, daedric)
    Saber - Lighter but weak (iron, steel)
    Longsword - Balanced (iron, steel, silver, glass, ebony, daedric)
    Katana - Superior (steel, daedric)
    Claymore - Heavier and more powerful (iron, steel, silver, glass, dwarven, daedric)
    Dai-katana - Supreme (steel, daedric)
  Blunt Weapons ["Heavy Weapons" and add axes?]
    Mace - Strong and heavy (iron, steel, dwarven, ebony, daedric)
    Warhammer - Stronger and heavier (iron, steel, dwarven, orc, daedric)
  Short Blades
    Daggers - Weak but fast (chitin, iron, steel, silver, glass, daedric)
    Shortswords - Balanced (chitin, iron, steel, imperial, silver, dwarven, ebony, daedric)
  Marksman Weapons
    Throwing weapons - Weak but efficient (chitin, iron, steel x2, silver, glass x2, ebony, daedric)
    Bows - Stronger but less efficient (chitin, short, long, steel, daedric)
    Crossbows - Balanced (steel, dwarven)

Armor
Weight (Light, Medium, Heavy, or Natural)
  Fighter: can use medium or heavy
  Thief: can use light or medium
  Mage: can use none
  Only enemies can use natural armor
Materials (non-mechanical, card design only)
  Light
    Chitin 1
    Glass 7
  Medium
    Bonemold 4
    Orcish 6
  Heavy
    Iron 2
    Steel 3
    Dwemer 5
    Ebony 8
    Daedric 9

Spells
School
  Alteration
   Defense for mages
   Own hand control (draw and cost reduction)
   Synergy with illusion for big power plays
  Conjuration
   Alternative to destruction/provides physical type damage for mages
  Destruction
   Damage and debuff
  Illusion
   Opponent interaction
  Mysticism
   Unusual or combat-interrupting effects
  Restoration
   Restore and buff
   Sundry synergies using situational buffs
All classes can use spells, but mages get the best starting magicka, their starting deck contains mostly spells where other classes have to find them in game, and mage skill cards that buff spells are mostly unavailable to other classes. Late-game spells would be impractical without these buffs, and it would be improbable for another class to acquire both a powerful spell and the out-of-class buff needed to cast it. Though mages are the most restricted in weapons, armor, and skills, they are more versatile with their access to spells.

Skills
Specialization (Combat, Stealth, or Magic)
Out-of-class skills can be purchased and used but never appear as treasure rewards and may be difficult to find.
Skills usually don’t deal damage or provide defense to avoid overlap with weapons and armor (which also cost stamina), but can overlap with spell effects since those cost magicka.

Items
Cost nothing to play
Mundane items may be useless (merchant fodder) or provide minimal benefits
Enchanted items are rare and valuable, and will never have astoundingly good effects
Examples include clothing items, tools, books, and clutter

Consumables
Consumables cost nothing to play and go to a special “consumed” pile when played (and cannot be played again until next combat).
Potions
  Cheaper and less powerful than scrolls, with simpler effects
  Spoiled potions and liquors with drawback effects will be available in the early game, e.g. for when you need that extra bit of stamina to deal the killing blow and can afford to become more vulnerable for a turn
  Potions provide healing options for non-spellcasters
  Potion effects can be boosted by the alchemist status
Scrolls
  Later-game cards that have big one-time effects to change the course of combat
  Scroll effects can be boosted by the enchanter status

Conjured cards
Can only be in the player's deck during battle and can only be acquired with the conjure card effect. They disappear when played or at the end of combat.
Bound weapons cost stamina but much less than a normal weapon. It effectively splits the cost of a daedric weapon between magicka and stamina.
Bound weapons look and act like weapons but they are not weapon type cards and do not have a weapon style.
Summoned creatures provide defense and deal damage and can have other effects depending on the cards belonging to that creature as an enemy. Summoned creatures don't cost anything to play. All but the weakest summoning spells are extremely rare, costly (in magicka), and valuable.

Generic cards
Except for enchantments, the following categories are just card variants and have no mechanical effect/are not represented programmatically.
Materials: iron, steel, orcish, adamantium, glass, ebony, daedric
  Armor only materials: chitin, netch leather, bonemold
  Staff-only materials: wooden, silver (staves can only have these plus glass, ebony, and daedric)
Weapon Substyles: longsword, claymore, mace, warhammer, dagger, shortsword, throwing star, bow (staves have none)
Weapon Enchantments: flame, shard, spark, viper, fire, frost, storm, poison
  Staff-only enchantments: chastening, judgment, reckoning, shaming, war, peace, ancestors 
Armor Pieces: gauntlets, helm, boots, cuirass, shield
Item Fashions: common, expensive, extravagant, exquisite
Item Articles: gloves, hood, shoes, robe, belt, ring, amulet
Potion Qualities: bargain, cheap, standard, quality, exclusive

Non-generic cards
Weapons
  Fiend Katana (long blade with conjure longsword effect)
  Devil Tanto (short blade with conjure dagger effect)
  Demon Wakizashi (short blade with conjure shortsword effect)
Potions
  Liquors (shein, mazte, sujamma, greef, cyrodilic brandy, flin, vintage brandy, skooma)
Items
  Tools and apparatuses
  Gems (pearl, ruby, emerald, diamond)
  Ingredients?
Scrolls
Skills
Spells
Conjured cards

Effects
Deal damage of type (physical, fire, frost, shock, poison)
Apply status (to self or opponent)
Remove status (from self)
Restore stat (health, stamina, magicka) X
  Increase stat by up to X, or to max.
Drain stat X
  Decrease stat by up to X, or to 0.
  Your stamina and magicka can only be drained during your own turn.
  Health can only be lowered in relation to max health by taking damage. Drain health does a special "magic damage" type that is unaffected by any buffs or debuffs. It can still be blocked with defense. Note that taking damage is not exactly the same thing as the Effect "deal damage".
Drain attribute (strength, endurance, intelligence, agility, speed, willpower, luck)
  Remove attribute status level X points.
Draw X
  Max hand size is 12; further cards will not be drawn when the effect resolves.
Discard X
  Select up to X cards to discard, or discard hand if you don't have enough.
Imbue effect
  Add an imbued effect to another card(s).
Jump X
  Reduce the cost of your most costly card in hand by up to X (minimum 0). If there is a tie, just pick whichever card comes first.
Pickpocket X
  Look at the top X cards in your opponent’s deck and pick one of them to play immediately as your own card (it goes to your opponent’s discard pile or consumed cards pile). Your opponent discards the rest.
Scry X
  Look at the top X cards in your deck and pick one of them to add to your hand. Discard the rest.
Dispel X
  Remove X levels from every active status.
Divine intervention
  Immediately end combat and return to town where quest can be retried (reduce gold by up to 100, or down to 0).
Almsivi intervention
  Immediately end combat and return to town where quest can be retried (reduce experience towards next level by up to 100, or down to 0).
Recall
  Immediately end combat and return to quest where enemy encounter can be retried.
Absorb health X
  Reduce opponent health by up to X and restore your health by that much (opponent takes magic damage).
Conjure card X
  Add a conjured card to your hand.
  Leveled effect?


Statuses
Decrement X by 1 each beginning of turn, or remove the status if X is zero.
Statuses go into effect immediately, but some may have immediate effects, others may trigger at each beginning of the turn, and others may trigger at specific times.
Defense X
  Take up to X less damage from a card that would deal damage to you and if you do, remove levels of defense equal to the damage blocked.
Burden X
  Your skills cost X more stamina.
Feather X
  Your skills cost up to X less stamina (min 0 stamina).
Levitate X
  For X turns, at the start of your turn the cost of each card in your hand is set to the average cost of all the cards in your hand (rounded up).
  Applies on top of other statuses that change cost.
Locked X
  For X turns, the opponent cannot interact with your deck or discard pile.
Waterwalking X
  The next X cards you play that would go to your discard pile don’t get discarded.
Waterbreathing X
  At the start of your turn, when you would draw cards, select up to X cards from your discard pile and add them to your hand. Then draw the rest of your cards from your deck.
Swift Swim X
  At the start of your turn, after drawing cards, you may discard up to X cards then draw that many cards.
Slowfalling X
  Keep your hand at the end of your turn for X turns.
Poison X
  Take X poison damage each turn.
Weakness to damage type (physical, fire, frost, shock, poison) X
  Take 1+0.2x times damage from that type.
Damage strength X
  Your weapons do 1-0.2x times damage (minimum 1 damage).
Damage endurance X
  Your armor provides 1-0.2x times defense.
Damage intelligence X
  Reduce max magicka by up to X (min 0).
Damage agility X
  Reduce max stamina by up to X (min 0).
Damage speed X
  Draw up to X fewer cards each turn (draw 2 cards minimum).
Damage willpower X
  Your spells do 1-0.2x times damage (min 1 for spells that deal damage).
Damage luck X
  If you have this status at the end of combat, receive the minimum possible treasure rewards. Lasts X turns.
Common disease X
  Cannot play more than 4 cards per turn for X turns.
  Applies to pickpocketed cards.
Blight disease X
  Cannot play more than 2 cards per turn for X turns.
  Applies to pickpocketed cards.
Regenerate X
  Restore X health each turn.
  Applies before or after statuses that change health depending on order.
Resistance to damage type X
  Take 1-0.2x times damage from that type.
Immune to damage type X
  Take no damage from that type for X turns.
Fortify strength
  Your weapons do 1+0.2x times damage.
Fortify endurance
  Your armor provides 1+0.2x times defense.
Fortify intelligence X
  Max magicka +X.
Fortify agility X
  Max stamina +X.
Fortify speed X
  Draw X additional cards each turn.
Fortify willpower X
  Your spells deal 1+0.2X times damage.
Fortify luck X
  If you have this status at the end of combat, receive the maximum treasure rewards. Lasts X turns.
Fortify magic school X (alteration, conjuration, destruction, illusion, mysticism, restoration)
  Spells of this school cost up to X less magicka (min 0).
Fortify armor weight (light, medium, heavy) skill
  Armor of this weight cost up to X less stamina (min 0).
Fortify weapon style (long blade, blunt weapon, short blade, marksman weapon, staff)
  Weapons of this style cost up to X less stamina (min 0).
Silence X
  Cannot play spells for X turns.
Blind X
  Cannot play weapons for X turns.
Paralyze X
  Cannot play any card type except consumable cards for X turns.
Evasion X
  0.1X chance to take 0 damage when a card would deal damage to you.
Hidden X
  0.1X chance to deal double damage.
Frenzy X
  Cards you play have none of their effects except dealing damage for X turns.
Calm X
  Cards you play deal 0 damage for X turns.
Commanded X
  Your turn is controlled by your opponent. Lasts X turns. - ?
Reflect X
  When your opponent deals elemental damage (fire, frost, shock, poison) to you, you take (0.9)^X times damage and your opponent takes damage of the same type equal to the damage blocked.
Spell absorption
  When your opponent deals elemental damage to you, you take (0.9)^X times damage and you get fortify intelligence equal to the number of points of damage blocked.
Soul trap X
  If the player plays a soul gem card while the enemy has this status, player’s soul gem card will be replaced with a filled soul gem card.
Mark X
  If you play a card with an intervention effect while you have this status, you will resume the quest at this encounter rather than starting over. 
Alchemist X
  Your potions are 1+0.2X times as effective.
Enchanter X
  Your scrolls are 1+0.2X times as effective.
Poisoner X
  Your poison potions are 1+0.2X times as effective.
Connoisseur X
  Your liquor potions are 1+0.2X times as effective.
Skooma Fiend X
  Your skooma is 2X times as effective. Take 5X points of physical damage at the end of each turn you don't play a skooma.
Comments and examples:
  If you apply poison 1 to the enemy during your turn, they take 1 poison damage at the start of their next turn, then poison is decremented to 0 and gets removed. If you were to apply poison 1 to yourself during your turn, it has no immediate effect and activates at the start of your next turn just before being removed. If you apply fortify strength 1 to yourself, weapon cards you play this turn are more effective and the status will be removed before you can play cards on your next turn.
  How this would look on a card: 
    [Weapon] Orcish Poisonmauler / Cost: 8 stamina / Effect: Deal 8 Physical Damage. (Tooltip: "Physical Damage: Strike the enemy with your weapon.") Deal 3 Poison Damage. (Tooltip: "Poison Damage: Poison the enemy with toxic venom.")
    [Skill] Sneak / Cost: 3 stamina / Effect: Gain Undetected 2. (Tooltip: "Undetected 2: You have a 20% chance to skip your opponent's next turn. Status effects decrease by 1 each turn.")
    [Spell] Firebolt / Cost: 1 magicka / Effect: Deal 1 Fire Damage. (Tooltip: "Fire Damage: Burn the enemy with scorching heat.")
    [Consumable] Poison of Paralyze / no cost / Effect: Inflict Paralyze 1. (Tooltip: "Paralyze 1: You can only play Consumable cards. Status effects decrease by 1 each turn.")
    [Consumable] Potion of Metagaming / no cost / Effect: Gain Alchemist 2. (Tooltip: "Alchemist 2: Your potions are 50% more effective. Status effects decrease by 1 each turn.")
    [Item] Salamander Ring / no cost / Effect: Gain Resist Fire 2. (Tooltip: "Resist Fire 2: You take 44% less Fire Damage. Status effects decrease by 1 each turn.")
Ideas for further statuses:
  Rally
  Demoralize
  Soultrap
  Command
  Resist magicka
  Piercing damage


Player Character 
Name
Class
Race
Birthsign
Level
  Upon level up, choose +1 to health, stamina, or magicka
Experience towards next level
  Don't record total experience, reset to 0 each level up
  At level L the experience required to level up is:
    (3L^3 + 25L^2 + 50L + 100)/(L + 5)
Powers (“permanent” status effects that don't decrement but can be temporarily drained or dispelled, and are restored at the next combat)?
Gold
Deck
Library (card storage)

Player Character Classes and Races
Fighter
  Hits for big damage and tanks damage well
  Makes early game easier
  Starts with 10 health, 6 stamina and 0 magicka
  Nord
    Resist frost 2
    Fortify endurance 1
    Fortify blunt weapon 1
  Orc
    Fortify strength 1
    Fortify endurance 1
    Max health +1
  Redguard
    Fortify strength 2
    Fortify agility 1
    Fortify long blade 1
Thief
  Lots of small hits and defend by dodging and trickery
  Makes midgame easier
  Starts with 9 health, 5 stamina and 2 magicka
  Argonian
    Immune to poison damage
    Cannot have poison status
    Cannot have common disease status
    Cannot have blight disease status
    Cannot have paralyze status
    Fortify light armor 1
  Bosmer
    Fortify agility 1
    Fortify intelligence 1
    Evasion 1
  Khajiit
    Fortify agility 2
    Undetected 1
 Mage  
  Versatile, strategic
  Makes late game easier
  Starts with 7 health, 1 stamina and 7 magicka
  Altmer
    Weakness to fire 1
    Weakness to frost 1
    Weakness to shock 1
    Fortify intelligence 3
  Breton
    Resist fire 1
    Resist frost 1
    Resist shock 1
  Dunmer
    Resist fire 2
    Fortify agility 1
LATER...
(Any)
  Imperial
    Decent "multiclass" option as out-of-class skills can only be acquired by purchasing them with gold
    +20% gold from treasure
    Add unique "Voice of the Emperor" calm power spell card to starting deck
      ("Power" spells are free to cast)

Player Character Birthsigns
The Warrior
  Fortify strength 1
The Thief
  Fortify agility 1
The Mage
  Fortify intelligence 1
The Serpent
  Immune to poison
  Add unique poison power spell card to starting deck
The Lady
  Fortify endurance 2
The Steed
  Fortify Speed 1
The Lord
  Regeneration 1
  Weakness to Fire 3
The Apprentice
  Weakness to Fire 1
  Weakness to Frost 1
  Weakness to Shock 1
  Starting max magicka +3
    This is different from fortify intelligence because that is a status that can be removed during combat
The Atronach
  Resist Fire 2
  Resist Frost 2
  Resist Shock 2
The Ritual
  Resist Physical 3
The Lover
  Add unique paralyze power spell card to starting deck
The Shadow
  Add unique invisibility power spell card to deck
The Tower
  +30% gold from treasure

Example: 
An orc fighter born under the ritual starts with 11 health, 6 stamina, 0 magicka, resist physical damage 3, and the fighter starting deck.
A khajiit thief born under the thief starts with 9 health, 5+3 stamina, 2 magicka, undetected 1, and the thief starting deck.
An altmer mage born under the apprentice starts with 7 health, 1 stamina, 7+6 magicka, weaknesses to fire, frost, and shock at level 2, and the mage starting deck.
An imperial thief born under the tower starts with 9 health, 5 stamina, 2 magicka, +50% gold from treasure, and the thief starting deck with the Voice of the Emperor card.

Game loop and progression
Start in Town
  Visit Merchants
  Adjust Deck and Library
  Talk to NPCs?
  Acquire Quest
Embark on Quest
  Encounter an Enemy, Event, or Treasure
  Repeat
Return to Town for Treasure
EVENTUALLY...
  Each time the player gets a game over, they can select one card in their deck to permanently add to a "class library" that all characters belonging to that class have access to. This way a really long and successful run gives you a big reward for next time, and a short run gives you a small reward.
  Building a class library to take on the final boss will be a major part of the game, even doing runs to acquire specific cards then getting a game over to quickly start looking for the next needed card. Maybe bosses that can only be faced once have a small chance of dropping an ultra-powerful card.

Quests
A quest is a sequence of encounters. Health is maintained between encounters but replenished between quests.
An encounter can be an enemy, a treasure, or an event.
Enemy encounters lead to combat.
Treasure encounters give the player rewards.
Events can have atmospheric descriptions or NPC dialogue, and can potentially involve some choices and consequences.
A quest ends with an enemy boss encounter. In the early game boss enemies are tougher regular enemies.
EVENTUALLY: different questlines per class (guild quests)

Combat
Combat is turn-based with the Player always going first.
Turn phases
  Start of Turn
    Replenish magicka and stamina to max
      Future idea: magicka replenishes between combats but not between turns?
    Draw 6 cards for turn
    Handle status effects
  Main
    Play cards
  End of Turn
    Discard Hand
Enemy turns proceed similarly. Combat ends when one combatant reaches 0 health, or an intervention or recall effect resolves. If the player wins, they get treasure.
  Right now, enemies play cards from their hand at random. They will do this for the foreseeable future.

Enemies
Enemies have stats, a deck, and a loot table.
On average, an enemy encountered at player level L should give 3 + 0.136L experience. (A quest completion should give about 4 times this much).
Quests have about 10 enemies and 1 boss enemy. Boss enemies may be regular enemies but with modified loot tables.

Treasure
Can contain gold, experience, and/or card rewards
Gold and card rewards should be partially random

Merchants
Merchants will buy cards at 80% value and sell cards at 120% value (or something). Stock is possibly random.
Maybe have different merchants that sell different types of cards?
SOMEDAY: disposition discount system?

Cities
(Old) Ebonheart
Stonefalls
Davon's Watch
Kragenmoor
Narsis
Ald-Ruhn
Other Cities:
  Necrom
  Veranis
  Firewatch
  Blacklight
  Tear
  Port Telvannis
  
Placenames
Caves
  Adad-nirari
  Shalmaneser
  Uballit
  Suppiluliuma
  Zalpuwa
  Yaz
Ancestral tombs
  Drothan
  Gilnith
  Ralas
  Thenim
  Hledri
  Ludreth
Strongholds
  Nelenimaryon
  Oralasreth
  Ruvynanoth
Daedric ruins
  Mazuwadimmu
  Yarssunalit
  Ulenbalsheth
  Kulishinash
  Baalpitashpal
  Sinsirrismus
Dwemer ruins
  Nyzfth-Bthinumz
  Nchandftz
  Gthark
  Ndrkthand
Velothi towers
  Bashtapa
  Anat
  Sattuara
Mines
  Darrallit
  Shafti-Zedan
  Yrranu-Palu
  Gawia
  Rishtanaptibi
  Coldspring Cave
  
  
________________________________________
|                                      |
|                                      |
|                                      |
|                                      |
|______________________________________|
